     

     Decoding Pocsag Pagers With The HackRF
     1 post • Page 1 of 1
     Decoding Pocsag Pagers With The HackRF

     Postby admin » Fri Aug 16, 2013 10:34 am
     Remember evesdropping on pagers may be illegal in your country do so at your own risk.

     This is another quick tutorial on things you can do with the HackRF. I was lucky enough
     to get one as part of the beta, it is a great piece of hardware and it is my hope that
     with these tutorials I can do my part in getting more people interested and we can get
     massive community built around the HackRF. Today I am going to be talking about
     decoding pocsag pager messages, for this I will assume you are using the great ubuntu
     live cd for the hackrf.

     First thing to do is get gqrx going and tune around the 137 - 160 ish mhz range - You
     will be looking for a signal like this:

     gqrx.png

     You can atually see three pocsag channels in this image.

     Ok now you have found the stream we need a way to decode it, it took me a bit of
     fiddling to get this to work so hopefully this will save you some time.
     First thing we need to do is install some tools so in a terminal run:

     sudo apt-get install pavucontrol

     Next we need to download a program called Multimon-NG from here, Log in or register to
     see all links ,click on download zip on the right hand side. Once this is downloaded
     unzip its contents to any directory.

     Cd in to the directory where you extracted Multimon-NG and enter the following:

     mkdir build
     cd build
     qmake ../multimon-ng.pro
     make
     sudo make install

     Now start Multimon-NG with this command:

     padsp multimon-ng -a POCSG512 -f alpha

     You will need to adjust -a depending on what your are decoding, anyway at this point
     you should have something that look like below:

     pocsag.png


     Now that this is running we need to pipe the audio from gqrx to multimon and this is
     were we use little pulse audio magic, In a new command line enter this command:

     pavucontrol

     You should now be looking at a window like the one below. What you need to do now is
     click on the recording tab and you should see listed "Multimon-NG recording from" in
     the box next to this make sure "Monitor of audio adapter" is selected. *Note you only
     need to do this once it will remember in the future.

     pavucontol.png


     Thats it when the next page comes through it should be decoded like you can see on the
     screen below, If you wondering why alot of this is blurred out its because these
     message often conatain a lot of personal information such as names, phone numbers and
     address's. Anyway thats all for today stay safe and have fun.
